and thank you so much DSA Jabari live
for us uh we just had to cut that short
because we're seeing the night sky be
lit up by air strikes in the Gaza Strip
this conflict is now almost hitting two
days and we had expect expected such a
flare up that is a live picture of the
Gaza Strip as we head into the second
day of this conflict on Saturday morning
Hamas launched a wave of Rocket attacks
and Fighters stormed into Israel it was
the deadliest day in 50 years we've just
had word that more than 700 Israelis
have been killed in this conflict in the
past 48 hours and
370 Palestinians fighting between the
two sides continues hundreds of
civilians that is quite an incredible
scene there that we are seeing bright
fire lighting up the sky of Gaza let's
just see if there's any sound that we
can hear on on that feed okay we don't
have any sound on that audio um we have
heard that the Israeli government has
declared allout war and and those are
pictures that we're seeing of a
declaration of war civilians 2.3 million
Palestinians live in the Gaza Strip and
as we're watching those pictures unfold
I want to bring in alzer's senior
political analyst marwin bashara who
joins us live from Paris we've mentioned
that the knesset has declared all out
War but you would argue Marwan that the
war has been going on for
decades well the conflict certainly has
been going on for decades and clearly uh
the 55e occupation is by definition a
system of violence uh it's a very
violent system perhaps it's slow
violence uh the kind of violence that
the camera
for the international media cannot catch
on a moment to moment and day-to-day
basis because it's not exactly dramatic
it doesn't make for good TV but clearly
an occupation that goes on for 50 years
plus that continues to repress people in
their daily lives is uh you know quite
violent in comparison to this it's of
course very different this is very
dramatic the images the people uh killed
captured injured and so on so forth
right and so of course when it bleeds it
leads and I think one of the uh one of
the um goals
objectives of provocations of that
nature where they do lead to bloodiness
of that it's usually people or
organizations who are totally in in
invisible to make themselves visible one
of the uh one of the objectives of uh in
an asymmetrical conflict is for the
weaker party to make itself known to
make itself present to make itself uh to
impose itself if you will on the
political agenda in the region and
Beyond Maan we knew that Israel was
going to increase its level of attacks
it had urged the evacuation of people
near the Gaza Strip we're seeing strikes
from the air on our screen at the moment
The Dark Knight sky has been lit up by
these recent air strikes more than a
dozen I would estimate over the past
hour what else could we see in terms of
a military response from Israel is it
likely that we could see it invading
from the
ground I we must emphasize once and
again and it's probably going to be with
us for the next few days we might as
well start this is not not a
conventional war and if you uh and the
rest of our viewers around the world are
watching what are we watching exactly
it's night
and the Israelis are bombarding and
that's the end of that this is this this
phase of this war as it were right is
Israel is bombarding basically an open
prison called Gaza now of course Hamas
which is basically de facto in control
there have carried the attack yesterday
and does shoot Rockets towards Israel
but it is the kind of asymmetrical
Warfare in the in the sense that Hamas
is not an army Gaza is not a state and
we don't have something that is
symmetrical between two equal parties we
have a we have a very Advanced very
powerful country a nuclear power country
Israel on the other hand we have a
gorilla movement a Liberation movement
of sort that basically uh exists in this
um you know open prison this refugee
camp called the Gaza Strip so hamash did
interrupt you there only because we're
seeing quite incredible scenes coming
from Gaza who do stand by that was
marwin bashara our political editor for
Al jazer let's bring in Tarak Abu AUM
who is actually live on the scene in
Gaza Tara can you explain what you're
hearing witnessing
seeing right now the uh Israeli
occupation forces are targeting
different areas in the northwest of the
Gaza Strip now the occupation forces are
adopting and applying the principal and
the strategy of the fire belt in which
the Israeli occupation uses it to
generally facilitate the process of its
ground Invasion by destroying every
single area close to the borders
specifically in the areas that are
considered to be Eastern and close to
the adjacent also settlement uh in
retaliation to the Israeli attacks on
the Gaza Strip the Palestinian
resistance started launching bages of
rockets towards the Israeli uh cities uh
as we can clearly right now see in the
Gaza Strip the sky of the Gaza Strip is
witnessing various kinds of clashes
exchanging fires between both parts now
the the the process and the level of
tension is accelerating and spiking
rapidly without any gradual uh let's say
de-escalating for the current uh
situation now as we can see as we can
clearly hear right now the sound of the
Israeli uh fire uh jets that are uh
hovering inside over the the uh the sky
of the Gaza Strip and are launching
different kinds of air strikes now
different areas as a can right now here
that have been targeted extensively by
the occupation air raides now and if you
can concentrate it on the scene in every
single place in the Gaza Strip you'll
find out there is a fire hole that has
been uh generally uh made by the Israeli
occupation Air
Forces do you have any concept of what
the targets are at this stage can you
see which buildings have been hit
actually the uh the targets considered
to be uh residential houses that are
closed to the Eastern borders of the
Gaza Strip in which uh the majority of
its dwellers have been evacuated uh
after receiving notifications from the
Israeli Army to evacuate these places
now usually this approach has been
applied by the Army in order to ease the
process of the ground Inc crusing into
the Gaza Strip after this comes
generally after the uh press release
that had been uh stated by the uh
Israeli uh ministers and the Israeli
Chief ministers who said that now it's
the time for war inside the Gaza Strip
so I think clearly and uh everyone uh
can see that the uh level of escalation
now is getting much more higher and the
coming hours might be really hard for
Palestinians we always knew that it was
going to be a tense evening that people
in Gaza were going to have to prepare
for a tense night ahead
what if anything can they do to protect
themselves from an onslaught such as
this now uh uh all of the uh let's say
70% of the gazans are now uh let's say
secured in the houses they just don't
have any safe shelter except the owner
of school which now had been uh fully uh
filled with the uh displaced uh
Palestinians who evacuated the houses uh
earlier uh this day and uh the majority
of them they have uh now no hope except
like they want to live uh in their
houses peacefully being away from the
Israeli strikes but Main in fact now the
Israeli strikes are everywhere inside
the Gaza Strip every single Corner in
the Gaza TP night now witness different
kinds of strikes which really uh give
the uh great and general impression that
the situation will witness massive deter
within coming
days T um I just want to give a recap to
our audience who's just joining us what
we know at this stage is that the number
of Israelis killed has increased to 700
since Hamas launched its biggest attack
on Israel on Sunday hundreds of
civilians and soldiers have been shot
and killed as Fighters stormed in uh
there are towns and cities in Israel
which have been infiltrated by Hamas uh
and the Palestinian group has breached
the Gaza barrier at several entry points
what we're seeing now is Israel
targeting Gaza and I want you just to
paint a picture of what's happened in
the past hour or so how many strikes
have you heard and seen and what do you
think that the the targets
are uh generally uh the numbers of a
strike had been intensified during the
early beginning of this day like it
passed more than hundreds of strikes
that had been targeted on uh civilians
inside the Gaza Strip uh some kinds of
let's say the the quality and the kinds
of targets were uh were varied from uh
residential Towers uh commercial Banks
uh shops and even civil infrastructure
besides targeting some uh military uh
sites that belong to the uh Palestinian
militant groups and it's important to
mention that uh 90% of the uh political
and military leaders of the militant
groups houses have been targeted by the
early by the occupation Air Forces since
the the beginning of this conflict it
seems that the situation uh is really
spiking despite the fact that uh
Regional mediators are trying to
convince both parts to self-control and
to deescalate the wave of
tension I'm just hearing uh on your
microphone there Turk that there's just
been another explosion if we can just
take a wide shot I want to see if we can
how close that is to
you all right uh I will now ask the the
cameraman to to take for a wide shot for
the Gaza trip right now actually you can
just move it to the to that place uh or
to the to this side to see the level of
explosions that really took place uh due
to the uh to the corner of the to the
Ang we're just going to go to a quick
break before we go to our next program
you're watching El jazer and our rolling
coverage of the conflict between Israel
and Gaza do stay with
us